# SnakeAI
Simple Snake Game AI

# Setup / Installation
Not much do it but make sure to install the `pip` dependencies.
I would recommend doing this in a python virtual environment.
- `python -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

# Program Overview
The core game logic for the snake game is stored in the [gameLogic](gameLogic) package.

The AI bots are defined in their own packages labelled `botx` where `x` is a number.
There are currently two completed bots (but more are being developed)

The `botTester.py` program is used to test the AI bots. It will simulate a complete snake game abiding by the rules in the [gameLogic](gameLogic) and choosing the move generated by the bot that is being tested. The output of the game including all the required information to reconstruct the entire game is saved in an output. The default location of this output file is `/saves/games/OUTPUT_NAME.snake`.

To render a saved game use the [render](render) package. This package generates an mp4 video output of the game with several customisation options available including varying output quality and FPS (see more below).

Additionally you can interactively test the bots using the [botSim.py](botSim.py) file. The user can also play/test the snake game themselves using the [game.py](game.py) file.

# Usage
Some useful bash aliases can be enbled using:
- `source commands.sh`
(note this guide will act as if these aliases are being used. If that is not the case then just type out the whole command)


## Testng a Bot
If you are looking to test `bot1` then this is simply achieved with the command,
- `test bot1`

As described above, this will show you the bots final socre and will generate a save file than can be optionally rendered in future.

Several command line options are available and I'll share the output of `test --help` below,

## Rendering a Saved Game
To render a game saved at the location `saves/games/output.snake` then use the following command,
- `render saaves/games/output.snake`

The output of the script will be an mp4 file which is by default located at `saves/renders/output.mp4`.

Like with the bot testing command, several command line options are available. I will again show the output of `render --help` below,

# Things to still add
- How to use the botSim
- Process of creating your own bot
